# PR #1664: FIXES #713 Remove 'use strict' strings brute force to enable module packaging

- **GitHub URL:** [PR #1664 on GitHub](https://github.com/exceljs/exceljs/pull/1664)
- **Author:** [@laurisvan](https://github.com/laurisvan) (Lauri Svan)
- **Labels:** *None*
- **Created At:** 2021-04-13T11:17:27Z (Formatted: Apr 13, 2021)
- **Updated At:** 2023-06-07T16:54:56Z

---

## Description

## Summary

The current ExcelJS fails with CSP unsafe code evaluation when exceljs is bundled with recent WebPack versions. It appears that the root cause is regenerator-runtime resorting to 'eval':ing the source code whenever it encounters "use strict". This is probably because "use strict" shouldn't be necessary with ES modules (they are strict by default).

I tried various workarounds, such as replacing all "use strict" clauses when babelifying code, having similar replacements with browserify etc. I am almost sure the root cause relates to browserify, e.g. it somehow ends up adding the "use strict" clauses. In absence of a better solution, I thought that brute force removal of "use strict" strings was the only option left, so I added a Grunt task for that. I tried the more popular "grunt-replace" module for this, but unfortunately it failed to process some of the libraries included (because of @@ character somewhere within the code).

I think the long term solution would be to replace the current build system with some other than browserify that would supply the needed polyfills, but I believe such an architectural change would be much bigger undertaking.

## Test plan

Steps to repeat:
1) Include the module in a Webpack build, insert `new CspHtmlWebpackPlugin(cspConfigPolicy, cspOptions)` into plugins array
2) `npm link` the exceljs module into your project
3) Build and load the web page

## Related to source code (for typings update)

N/A
