# PR #1570: fix a handful of streaming parser bugs

- **GitHub URL:** [PR #1570 on GitHub](https://github.com/exceljs/exceljs/pull/1570)
- **Author:** [@yocontra](https://github.com/yocontra) (Eric Schoffstall)
- **Labels:** *None*
- **Created At:** 2020-12-17T20:06:20Z (Formatted: Dec 18, 2020)
- **Updated At:** 2025-01-27T08:29:54Z

---

## Description

<!-- Thanks for submitting a pull request! Please provide enough information so that others can review your pull request. The two fields below are mandatory. -->

## Summary

We use the streaming parser and encountered a number of issues - sometimes files would stall out, sometimes they would always fail unless you opened and resaved the file, sometimes dates would just not be parsed for some files.

### Major Changes

- Change default arguments to match the docs (Closes #1531)
- Fixes a race condition where worksheets would start being read before the styles were parsed, causing dates to fail and show up as numbers (Closes #1430)
- Fixes a stall (unreported?) in the BaseXForm parser - if closetag was encountered it would return, and the sax parser would fail to flush and just pause forever. The correct behavior should be to break so that it flushes the parser correctly.
- Fixes a stall (unreported?) where worksheets would never be read.
  - I resolved this by implementing a basic queue to handle the waitingWorksheets logic - I think this cleans up the code a bit as well and makes it easier to understand.
- Removes the `iterateStream` utility, which was causing stalls and race conditions (Closes #1558)
  - I read through all of the previous conversation on the unzipper project so I understand the initial reason why it was added.
  - All tests pass without it, I think this was just covering up for some of the previous bugs - file parser generators were stalling which bubbles up causing the unzipper generator to stall as well (and thus fail to autodrain, because that statement was never reached).

### Minor Changes

- Changes the getStream ducktype to match the other code in the project (just checking for a pipe function)
- Use pipeline when writing files so that errors are properly managed
- Removed some node 8 code - Node 8 has been deprecated/EOL since 2019 (https://blog.risingstack.com/update-nodejs-8-end-of-life-no-support/)
- Switches to the promise version of autodrain, since your PR to unzipper making that work correctly landed and is published

## Test plan

All of our edge case tests that use exceljs under the hood pass, and the existing exceljs tests pass. Let me know if you would like to see any additional tests.
