# PR #2090: Tables and media update functions when inserting or deleting rows/columns in a worksheet

- **GitHub URL:** [PR #2090 on GitHub](https://github.com/exceljs/exceljs/pull/2090)
- **Author:** [@MatthisClavijo](https://github.com/MatthisClavijo)
- **Labels:** *None*
- **Created At:** 2022-07-04T09:56:04Z (Formatted: Jul 4, 2022)
- **Updated At:** 2024-01-25T08:10:30Z

---

## Description

<!-- Thanks for submitting a pull request! Please provide enough information so that others can review your pull request. The two fields below are mandatory. -->

## Summary
This PR aims at updating tables and media when a row or a column is inserted or removed in a worksheet. This PR also adds a check for table column name uniqueness. This PR depends on precedent PR #2089.

### - Check for table column name uniqueness

### - Behaviour when inserting or deleting a row/column
#### Table update:
- Reference
- Rows addition or deletion
- Columns addition or deletion

#### Medium update:
- Reference

<!-- Explain the **motivation** for making this change. What existing problem does the pull request solve? -->

## Test plan

***(Reading the xlsx file)***

I have written an integration test that loads an xlsx file containing 2 sheets with 2 tables each, 1 sheet with 3 images and 1 sheet with a chart.

<br><ins>Tables</ins>
It checks if the tables in the first sheet have correct references, adds and deletes rows and checks if the table's reference and rows are correctly updated.
It then adds and removes columns and checks if the table's reference and columns are correctly updated.

<br><ins>Media</ins>
It checks if the second sheet's media have correct references (anchor points), adds and deletes rows and checks if media's references are correctly updated.
It then adds and removes columns and checks if media's references are correctly updated.

No modification is done to the third and fourth sheet. Note that if you generate the output file, the chart doesn't appear as it is not yet supported in exceljs.

<!-- Demonstrate the code is solid. Example: The exact commands you ran and their output, screenshots / videos if the pull request changes UI. -->

## Related to source code (for typings update)

<!-- List with permalink into source code to prove that changes are true -->
